.TH SYNTROPY 1 "2026-06-27" "1.0" "SYNTROPY Manual"
.SH NAME
syntropy \- Unified Linux Incident Response Toolkit (Audit, Acquire, Analyze)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B syntropy-run.sh
[\fB\-\-yara\fR \fIrules.yara\fR] [\fB\-\-out\fR \fIdir\fR]
.PP
.B syntropy-bind.sh
\fIcase_root\fR [\fIdump_hash\fR]
.PP
.B syntropy-scan-offline.sh
\fIdump.bin\fR [\fB\-\-yara\fR \fIrules.yara\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
SYNTROPY is an open-source forensic ecosystem that orchestrates LinSpec (kernel
audit), S.I.R.E.N (memory acquisition), and K-Scanner (RWX analysis) to perform
the full incident response lifecycle on Linux systems.
.PP
It operates in three phases:
.IP 1. 4
LinSpec audits kernel hardening parameters (ASLR, kptr_restrict, ptrace_scope,
BPF JIT, etc.) and produces a structured report.
.IP 2. 4
S.I.R.E.N acquires volatile memory via /proc/kcore with audit-aware strategy
adjustment and cryptographic integrity (SHA256).
.IP 3. 4
K-Scanner scans live processes for RWX memory regions and suspicious mappings,
with optional YARA rule matching.
.PP
The three scripts work together:
.B syntropy-run.sh
executes the full pipeline (audit, acquire, analyze) and produces a unified
report via
.BR syntropy-bind.sh .
.B syntropy-scan-offline.sh
analyzes a previously acquired memory dump.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B syntropy-run.sh
.TP
\fB\-\-yara\fR \fIrules.yara\fR
Path to YARA rules file for K-Scanner analysis phase.
.TP
\fB\-\-out\fR \fIdir\fR
Output directory for case artifacts (default: /tmp/syntropy/FOR-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS).
.TP
.B syntropy-scan-offline.sh
.TP
\fB\-\-yara\fR \fIrules.yara\fR
Path to YARA rules file for offline dump scanning.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /tmp/syntropy/FOR-*
Default case output directory containing audit/, acquire/, and analyze/
subdirectories along with the unified syntropy_report.json.
.TP
.I /opt/siren
S.I.R.E.N acquisition toolkit location.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The scripts exit 0 on success and 1 on error (missing file, invalid argument,
or unsupported option).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR linspec (1),
.BR kscanner (1)
